.\" MIT License
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Davidson Francis <davidsondfgl@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH "preloader" "1" "" "" "preloader man page"
.SH NAME
preloader \- preloads a program into memory to decrease load times
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpreloader\fR [\fIoptions\fR]... \fIprogram_name\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Although dynamically built executables has several advantages over static ones,
overuse of dynamic libraries and/or large libraries can result in longer program
load times.
.PP
While this is usually not noticeable, it becomes visible in short-lived
processes, especially on older hardware and embedded devices like the Raspberry
Pi. In this scenario, the load time can consume a significant amount of the
execution time, or even more than the program's runtime.
.PP
Preloader attempts to address this issue by 'pre-loading' a program into
memory in order to reduce the program's loading time. The preloaded process
runs a server that listens for
.BR preloader_cli (1)
requests. Each request results in a new process being forked (with the
libraries already loaded) and executed with the arguments provided by
\fBpreloader_cli\fR(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p, \-\-port \fIport\fR
Specifies the \fIport\fR to be listening (default: 3636). Note: \fBpreloader\fR
uses 4 ports to do IPC, starting from '\fIport\fR', up to '\fIport\fR+3'. If
there is a need to start multiples instances, please choose values that do not
overlap.
.TP
\fB\-b, \-\-bind\-now
Ask the dynamic linker to resolve all references immediately. This can shorten
load times, so it might be useful to use it
.TP
\fB\-d, \-\-daemonize
Run preloader as a daemon process, without blocking the terminal. Please note
that while in daemon mode, logs are only visible if they are explicitly saved
to file with the \fB-o\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-f, \-\-load\-libs \fItext_file\fR
Loads a \fItext_file\fR containing a list of libraries (one per line). This is
particularly useful when the library list is only known at runtime. The
\fButils/getlibs.sh\fR helper script can run a program and return the complete
list of libraries loaded at runtime.
.TP
\fB\-s, \-\-stop
Stops the \fBpreloader\fR server for the default port, or for a specific port if
\fB-p\fR is used.
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help
Print (on the standard error) a brief usage of \fBpreloader\fR.
.PP
.SS Logging options
.TP
\fB\-o, \-\-log\-file \fIfile\fR
Save log to \fIfile\fR (default is stderr).
.TP
\fB\-l, \-\-log\-level \fIinfo|err|crit|all\fR
Specifies the log level (default: \fIinfo\fR)
.br
\fIinfo\fR: Only show information messages.
.br
\fIerr\fR: Only show error messages.
.br
\fIcrit\fR: Only show critical messages.
.br
\fIall\fR: All of the above.
.br
(Critical messages are always displayed)
.SH NOTES
.SS Preloader requirements
Preloader requires the following environment to run:
.IP - 3
Kernel: Linux v2.5.44+ (i.e., with \fBepoll\fR(3) support)
.IP -
Architectures supported: ARM32, ARM64, i386 and x86-64.
.IP -
Libraries supported: GNU libc, Bionic, and uClibc-ng (do not work on Musl).
.IP -
System tools: Bash, grep, cut, any version
.IP -
GNU Make
.RE
.SH BUGS
.PP
No known bugs.
.SH EXAMPLES
Preload a process \fIfoo\fR in daemon mode and then, execute \fIfoo\fR
through the client with arguments: a, b, and c. After that, stops the daemon.
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ preloader -d foo
$ preloader_cli foo a b c
$ preloader -s
.RE
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Written by Davidson Francis (davidsondfgl@gmail.com), see
\fIcontributors\fR page in github.com/Theldus/preloader for more details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR preloader_cli (1)
